<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<template xmlns='http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml' xmlns:ac='http://code.google.com/p/ajde/wiki/AC'>
	
	<h2>Ajde is a web framework with open standards in mind</h2>
	<h3>A framework for designers</h3>
	<div>
		<div class='feature'>
			<h4>Requirements</h4>
			<ul>
				<li>Open mind</li>
				<li>Creative spirit</li>
				<li>A web host running:</li>
				<li>PHP > 5.2.3</li>
				<li>.htaccess support</li>
				<li>the more the better</li>
			</ul>
			<div class='button'>
				<a href='download.html'>Download</a>
			</div>
			<h4>Features</h4>
			<ul>
				<li>Light-weight</li>
				<li>PHP and XML templates</li>
			</ul>
			<div class='button'>
				<a href='documentation.html'>Documentation</a>
			</div>
		</div>
		<p>
			A simple to use API and a straightforward templating system for your web
			application. Ajde will automatically include your related JavaScript and
			stylesheets if you follow the naming convention and you can write your
			templates in native PHP or entirely in XML.
		</p>
		<p>
			Writing your application logic and extending Ajde is easy and extensive
			exception handling is turned on by default. Unless of course you switch from
			the development stage to a live website.
		</p>
		<h3>A framework for Grade A performance</h3>
		<p>
			Ajde aims to be a framework for designers. Employing out-of-the box
			minifiers, resource combining and caching of resources such as JavaScript
			and stylesheet files, and taking care of all the right headers and .htaccess
			settings for you, Ajde lifts the performance of your application to a whole
			next level.
		</p>
		<h3>Examples</h3>
		<p>
			A fresh checkout of Ajde contains the <em>home</em> module by default.
			Take a look at this template of the default <em>view</em> action for
			this module: 
			<script type='syntaxhighlighter' class='brush: html' title='file: ./modules/home/template/view.xhtml:'><![CDATA[
				<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
				<template
					xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
					xmlns:ac="http://www.adje.org/doc/xhtml.html">
					
					<ac:js library='jquery' version='1.4' />
					
					<h1>My Website</h1>
					<ac:include route='home/menu.html' />
					
					<p>You're viewing my homepage!</p>
										
				</template>			
			]]></script>
		</p>
		<p>
			The output will be wrapped in the default layout, which is based on
			the excellent <a href='http://html5boilerplate.com/'>HTML 5 Boilerplate</a>.
			Also, related stylesheets and JavaScript in combined and minified form are
			included and the output is valid HTML 5.
			<script type='syntaxhighlighter' class='brush: html' title='url: ./home.html'><![CDATA[
				<!doctype html>
				<html lang='en' id='project'>
					<head>
						<meta charset='utf-8'>
						<!--[if IE]><![endif]-->
						<title>Project Name</title>
						<meta name='description' content=''>
						<meta name='author' content=''>
						<base href='http://ajde.local/' />
						<link rel='stylesheet' type='text/css' href='resource/compressed/css/35833f856c20289132a2d486f71e9f68/' />
					</head>
					<!--[if lt IE 7 ]><body	class='ie6'> <![endif]-->
					<!--[if IE 7 ]><body class='ie7'> <![endif]-->
					<!--[if IE 8 ]><body class='ie8'> <![endif]-->
					<!--[if IE 9 ]><body class='ie9'> <![endif]-->
					<!--[if (gt IE 9)|!(IE)]><!--><body><!--<![endif]-->
						<div id='wrapper'>
							<h1>My Website</h1>
							<ul>
								<li><a href='home.html'>Homepage</a></li>
								<li><a href='home/contact.html'>Contact</a></li>
							</ul>
							<p>
								You're viewing my homepage!
							</p>
						</div>
						<script type='text/javascript' src='http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.4/jquery.min.js'>&lt;/script>
						<script type='text/javascript' src='resource/compressed/js/4701f2652264022debb1697deda43d58/'>&lt;/script>
					</body>
				</html>
			]]></script>
			Page speed score? <strong>99/100</strong>. YSlow score? <strong>98</strong>.
		</p>
		
		
		
	</div>

</template>